PropertiesPicoContainerp. PropertiesPicoContainer is a special type of PicoContainer that is populated from the entries in a properties file.

p. Here is an example of how to use PropertiesPicoContainer to map properties as configuration for a component, with parameter names as the bindings.


p. Consider this component:

public class BigFatComponent { URL spellWebService; int timeout; public BigFatComponent(String spellingWebServiceURL, int timeout) throws MalformedURLExeption { this.spellWebService = new URL(spellingWebServiceURL); this.timeout = timeout; } public String toString() { return "URL=" + spellWebService + ", timeout=" + timeout; } // other methods }p. For automatic binding of properties to parameter names of the component:

Properties defaultProperties = new Properties(); defaultProperties.load("my-application.properties"); // default properties are taken from here PicoContainer propsContainer = new PropertiesPicoContainer(defaultProperties); MutablePicoContainer mpc = new DefaultPicoContainer(propsContainer); mpc.as(Characteristics.USE_NAMES).addComponent(BigFatComponent.class);p. Here is another manual use forcing an association between a item in the properties file, and the relative position of a parameter in the constructor. It is most useful when there is not a tie-up between the parameter names and the properties. In this case the arg passed in to the ConfigParameter (varargs list) is the one that matches the property name:

mpc.addComponent(BigFatComponent.class, ConfigParameter("wsURL"), ConfigParameter("serviceTimeout"));p. Type conversion is automatic in many cases. Properties in a properties file are clearly strings. Parameters can be any of:

* String
* All numeric types, boxed as well as primitives
* java.util.Date
* java.io.File as well as java.io.URL
* java.util.Date
* java.sql.(Date|Time|Timestamp)
* Any type sporting accessible constructor taking single string parameter.

p. PropertiesPicoContainer can be part of a tree of containers. It makes sense, of course, being more near the root of that tree.

