SystemPropertiesPicoContainerp. SystemPropertiesPicoContainer is a special type of PicoContainer that is populated from the "System Properties":http://www.mindspring.com/~mgrand/java-system-properties.htm passed into the Java application when it started.

p. Here is an example of how to use SystemPropertiesPicoContainer to map system properties as configuration for a component, with parameter names as the bindings.

p. Consider this component:

public class BigFatComponent { URL spellWebService; int timeout; public BigFatComponent(String spellingWebServiceURL, int timeout) throws MalformedURLExeption { this.spellWebService = new URL(spellingWebServiceURL); this.timeout = timeout; } public String toString() { return "URL=" + spellWebService + ", timeout=" + timeout; } // other methods }p. For automatic binding of system properties to parameter names of the component:

PicoContainer syspropsContainer = new SystemPropertiesPicoContainer(); MutablePicoContainer mpc = new DefaultPicoContainer(syspropsContainer); mpc.as(Characteristics.USE_NAMES).addComponent(BigFatComponent.class);p. Here is another manual use forcing an association between a system properties, and the relative position of a parameter in the constructor. It is most useful when there is not a tie-up between the parameter names and the system properties. In this case the arg passed in to the ConfigParameter (varargs list) is the one that matches the syst property name:

mpc.addComponent(BigFatComponent.class, ConfigParameter("wsURL"), ConfigParameter("serviceTimeout"));p. System properties can be set for the scope of the application only, as you start the application:

java -Dwebservice.url=http://servicehost/service -Dwebservice.timeout=50 -jar myAppJar.jar -cp picocontainer-2.0.jarp. Type conversion is automatic in many cases. Properties in a properties file are clearly strings. Parameters can be any of:

* String
* All numeric types, boxed as well as primitives
* java.util.Date
* java.io.File as well as java.io.URL
* java.util.Date
* java.sql.(Date|Time|Timestamp)
* Any type sporting accessible constructor taking single string parameter.

p. SystemPropertiesPicoContainer can be part of a tree of containers. It makes sense, of course, being more near the root of that tree.

